[ Workers/ Workflows ] Add Workflows test support APIs (#24832)
cloudflare/cloudflare-docs: src/content/docs/workers/testing/vitest-integration/test-apis.mdx

---

> import { InlineBadge } from '~/components';

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

  * Applies all un-applied [D1 migrations](/d1/reference/migrations/) stored in the `migrations` array to database `db`, recording migrations state in the `migrationsTableName` table. `migrationsTableName` defaults to `d1_migrations`. Call the [`readD1Migrations()`](/workers/testing/vitest-integration/configuration/#readd1migrationsmigrationspath) function from the `@cloudflare/vitest-pool-workers/config` package inside Node.js to get the `migrations` array. Refer to the [D1 recipe](https://github.com/cloudflare/workers-sdk/tree/main/fixtures/vitest-pool-workers-examples/d1) for an example project using migrations.

> ### Workflows <InlineBadge preset="beta" />

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Workflows
```

:::caution[Workflows currently require `isolatedStorage` to be disabled]

> To test projects that use Workflows, you **must** set `isolatedStorage` to `false` in your `vitest.config.ts` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To test projects that use Workflows `isolatedStorage` **must** be set to `false` in the project's `vitest.config.ts` file.
```

          const instance = await introspectWorkflowInstance(env.MY_WORKFLOW, "123456");
          await instance.modify(async (m) => {
            await m.disableSleeps();
            await m.mockEvent({ type: "user-approval" }, { approval: true });
          });

          // 2. EXECUTION
          await env.MY_WORKFLOW.create({ id: "123456" });

          // 3. ASSERTION
          await instance.waitForStatus("complete");

          // 4. CLEANUP
          await instance.cleanUp();
        });
        ```
    * The returned `WorkflowInstanceIntrospector` object has the following methods:
        * `modify(fn: (m: WorkflowInstanceModifier) => Promise<void>)`: Applies modifications to the Workflow instance's behavior.
        * `waitForStepResult(step: { name: string; index?: number })`: Waits for a specific step to complete and return a result. If multiple steps share the same name, use the optional `index` property (1-based, defaults to `1`) to target a specific occurrence.
        * `waitForStatus(status: InstanceStatus["status"])`: Waits for the Workflow instance to reach a specific [status](/workflows/build/workers-api/#instancestatus) (e.g., 'running', 'complete').

>         * `cleanUp()`: Cleans up the Workflow instance's state. It is crucial to call this after each test to ensure isolation.

Reviewer: Explain a bit further what happens if `cleanUp()` is not called.

        it("should disable all sleeps, mock an event and complete", async () => {
          // 1. CONFIGURATION
          const introspector = await introspectWorkflow(env.MY_WORKFLOW);
          await introspector.modifyAll(async (m) => {
            await m.disableSleeps();
            await m.mockEvent({ type: "user-approval" }, { approval: true });
          });

          // 2. EXECUTION
          await env.MY_WORKFLOW.create();

          // 3. ASSERTION & CLEANUP
          const instances = introspector.get();
          for(const instance of instances) {
            await instance.waitForStatus("complete");
            await instance.cleanUp();
          }

          introspector.cleanUp();
        });
        ```
      The workflow instance doesn't have to be created inside the test. The workflow instance creation doesn't have to be direct. The introspector will capture **all** instances created after it is initialized. For example, you could trigger the creation of **one or multiple** instances via a single `fetch` event to your Worker:
      ```js
      // This also works for the EXECUTION phase:
      await SELF.fetch("https://example.com/trigger-workflows");
      ```

>     * The returned `WorkflowIntrospector` object has the following methods:

Reviewer: add sample on how to use this

Author: It is included in both API examples

Author: I can add another example here as well if that makes sense
